[Music]
hello my name is Ravi and I am going to
be doing a ten-course vegan meal for my
friends I'm very excited but I'm also
quite nervous because it's gonna be a
lot of work I've never cooked a
three-course meal you've let alone a tan
course meal I'm gonna be taking you
through everything that I'm doing to
hold my Victorian etiquette so I started
off by doing a lot of research into
Victorian etiquette dinner party rules
there were so many and I looked at so
many different sources to find some
really obscure ones it was so
interesting so much fun to research and
if you would like to see what I found
then I will leave the research document
linked down below I've also got a video
going up soon where I outline all of the
rules which I found so the first thing I
did was use my research to make some
menu cards and then I just printed these
out onto cardstock okay I thought of my
menus printed out here and now I need to
write my name tax then the next thing I
wanted to do was make some name tags
this was a really important part of
Victorian dinner parties the host would
think really hard about where people
would sit you shouldn't sit with your
partner so if you're married you
shouldn't sit with your spouse
[Music]
so there are few little bits that I need
to order for the dinner table these are
things I have just added into my basket
I've got some soup spoons cause you
don't actually have any soup spoons this
candlestick holder which is really cool
and then some taper candles I pack a 50
mind you I hate buying things so after
that since I already have my menu I had
to go through make a list of everything
I would need all the ingredients and
then I just referred to what we already
had in in the cupboard and made a
shopping list
[Music]
and then we went off to the shops to
pick everything art
[Music]
gonna get these to be positive which one
to a prostitute
nice
[Music]
we are here in Tesco's and I've now got
all of the vegetables I need apart from
sun-dried tomatoes okay we're starting
to get that we're about halfway through
the list interestingly there are loads
of rules regarding alcohol and what
alcohol you should drink with each
particular meal you might know that I
don't actually drink and I didn't end up
getting anything other than wine and
Prosecco but usually you would have
brandy sherry and it'd all be served
with particular courses which is really
interesting so I need this line to cook
with but I only need a tablespoon of it
your waist so cool mom is gonna have to
drink this tonight with dad no so mums
getting the white wine because I need a
tablespoon but I'm gonna get the red
wine to cook the poached pattern I don't
know anything about wine mom which one
should I go for just yes okay so
choosing the wines we're going to drink
this one and the drawing-room afterwards
and we're going to cook with this one so
my wonderful candelabra came in the post
and I just set this up
[Music]
today is the day so we did need to go
out to get some last-minute supplies I'm
gonna go so we've moved the main kitchen
table into the lounge
it's just perfect with the dinner party
found a white tablecloth I'm just gonna
try putting it on the table to make sure
that it fits so the next thing I had to
do was iron out this tablecloth and this
took such a long time I didn't show all
of the clips of me ironing this but I
ended up having to put it on the table
keep on coming back because it just was
so creased but I'm so glad that I did
this because it really finishes the
table off
[Music]
there are two things left I need to cook
which are the vegan Bellinis which I
need to make from scratch and I need to
make this salad roast the courgette
isolated need to make an itinerary for
my sister and her friends evil
waitressing so I'm gonna have to set the
table in between cooking let's start
with the homemade vegan Bellinis because
I can get this cooking so then of course
the next thing and the thing I was most
excited about was setting the table so I
decided not to get the red roses and to
get the white flowers instead and my
grandma very kindly brought round some
flowers to just pad this out a little
bit so I just cut these down and added
them to the bouquet
so I still haven't made my mind up
whether I want to use these oh these
ones let's try and if I change my mind
that we can always change back to the
blue
[Music]
okay now we're just gonna quickly grab
the napkin ring and the table is looking
so good I love love love setting the
Dame I always do it on like Christmas
and Easter and things this is so much
fun to set
[Music]
and I can't do any gorgeous origami
napkin sculptures so I just decided to
roll them
[Music]
this is how we're gathering along we're
nearly there now I just need to go and
get the glasses so I'm getting a glasses
out and look what happened one of these
smashed and I feel so bad cuz these are
my mom's favorite glasses and she said I
could use them and now okay they're
gonna get clear this up and here we go
here is the finished product which I
think you should always eat from the
outside in so we're starting with the
soup which is why the soup spoon is here
so it's always important fresh flowers
on a Dennis V so then over here we've
got our side plate which is for our
bread and we've got a name tag and then
we've also got our glasses so
traditionally noodles they have a sherry
glass here but we didn't have sherry so
we've got a water glass on coaster then
we've got a wine glass and then the last
one is a champagne glass it's loose have
lots of like sticking party especially
we have larger libraries at the table
[Music]
okay so ten courses took a long time to
do and I completely underestimated how
much time and organization this would
take in the end I did get everything
done but it took a while so for first
course for our starter we had a pumpkin
soup which is my recipe I really love
making pumpkin soup
so I made a passive puree
[Music]
okay so just finished blending the pasta
puree just I've just sauteed up this
beat troops I'm going to now blitz up in
a food processor okay no things next is
the asparagus I'm making the salad at
the moment so here are the red onions
and the blinis are all here just gonna
cut these in half
okay so I've technically got like 45
minutes till everyone arrives so I'm
gonna get changed so I'm wearing this
dress of my mum's and it's so pretty
it's got these will will these
dandelions on it
so my plan now is to get ready
completely briefed my sister and her
friend when they come and I was need to
get the canopies ready for the drawing
[Music]
so before a dinner party
everyone should assemble in the drawing
room and it is actually considered
polite for guests who arrive 15 minutes
late which iPhone was really interesting
and after a dinner party the women would
return to the drawing room and they were
to chat and drink coffee and tea whilst
the gentlemen smoked and drunk usually
sherry at the table also really
interestingly the procession when you
actually leave the drawing room to go
into the dining room was really
important and the order of in which
people actually left the drawing room
was important so the host and the guest
of honor would be the ones to lead this
could be really complicated if you had
people who were single or widowed so
after that we went into the dining and I
did feel really bad to ask but Martha
and her friend was such good sports and
they waitress for us in the evening so
they wait just the first five courses
I'd precooked everything but serving was
really really important in the Taurean
period at dinner parties the guests
would be served from their seats and it
was something that I really didn't want
to miss out in the snow party Martha and
junior was so so lovely and we try to
uphold formality but by about the second
or third course it was really hard to
you it's not typical for you - for
example thank the people who are waiting
on you and to really talk to them but
that felt just really awfully got Tina
the second course by that point we were
just talking as normal which I know
wasn't really allowed but it just
thought you rude not to you
[Music]
so he started with a pumpkin soup as I
said it was pretty much cold by the time
that we actually ate it because we were
chatting so much and then waitressing
was again very important which is why I
actually did ask Martha in jet to do
this so meals are served to the right of
you so you would have the person on the
host right served first and then you'd
go round in a circle from there we also
decided to have the whole party lit only
by candlelight and it was actually
really lovely
[Music]
you
no one's eating any food babe the
mushroom and chestnut pie and then of
course we heard the aftermath so the
next morning I had to do all of the
washing off of course and I didn't do it
that evening because it was about 11:30
12:00 and it was a tiny bit too late for
me to have done all this washing off it
ended up taking me about two and a half
hours to do because pretty much every
single plate in the house had been used
but all the washing that was definitely
worth it because I had such an
incredible time and it was particularly
interesting just to actually try and
live that dinner party because it was
such an important part of Victorian
upper-class life and it's so fascinating
when you think that these rules were
followed on a daily basis lots of them
are kind of common sense but some of
them are very particular and it's just
interesting I found it really
fascinating let me know if you found a
fascinating there's anything that you
learnt and I hope that you have a
productive week
that's really it's hiring being so
talented at being chefs but I think I've
got it high and TV and welcome to my
swamp the quirky thing about this is it
so much because fish ex-slave things
[Music]